A functional interface only one abstract method and can include any quantity of default and static methods.
Runnable, ActionListener, and Comparable are some of the examples of functional interfaces.


Lambda expressions can be used to represent the instance of a functional interface.
Functional Interface is additionally recognized as Single Abstract Method Interfaces.

Before Java 8: We can create an anonymous inner class to instantiate an interface with a single abstract method.

class Test {
    public static void main(String args[])
    {
        // create anonymous inner class object
        new Thread(new Runnable() {
            @Override public void run()
            {
                System.out.println("New thread created");
            }
        }).start();
    }
}

Java 8 onwards, we can assign lambda expression to its functional interface object like this

class Test {
    public static void main(String args[])
    {
        // lambda expression to create the object
        new Thread(() -> {
            System.out.println("New thread created");
        }).start();
    }
}

@FunctionalInterface annotation is used to ensure that the functional interface can’t have more than one abstract method

Java SE 8 included four main kinds of functional interfaces :
Consumer
Predicate
Function
Supplier

1/ Consumer
-accepts only one argument or a gentrified argument
-has no return value.
-exists functional variants of the Consumer — DoubleConsumer, IntConsumer, and LongConsumer. These variants accept primitive values as arguments.

1.2/ BiConsumer
the Bi-Consumer interface takes two arguments. It is used in iterating through the entries of the map.

2. Predicate
-accepts an argument
-generates a boolean value as an answer.
-exists functional variants of the Predicate: IntPredicate, DoublePredicate, and LongPredicate. These variants accept only primitive data types or values as arguments.

2.1/ BiPredicate
takes two arguments, does some processing, and returns the boolean value.

3. Function
-receives only a single argument and returns a value after the required processing.
-There are many versions of Function interfaces because a primitive type can’t imply a general type argument, so we need these versions of function interfaces.

These versions are:

3.1/Bi-Function
The Bi-Function is substantially related to a Function. Besides, it takes two arguments, whereas Function accepts one argument.
3.2/Unary Operator
The Unary Operator is a special type of Function that takes a single argument and returns a value of the same type.
It extends the Function interface.

3.3/Binary Operator
The Binary Operator is a special type of Bi-Function that takes two arguments and returns a value of the same type.
It extends the Bi-Function interface.

4. Supplier
-It doesn’t accept any argument.
-It produces a result.
-It is used to generate or supply values without any input.
-generally used in the lazy generation of values.
-defining the logic for the generation of any sequence of numbers.
For example – The logic behind the Fibonacci Series can be generated with the help of the Stream. generate method, which is implemented by the Supplier functional Interface.


exists functional variants suppliers like BooleanSupplier, DoubleSupplier, LongSupplier, and IntSupplier.
The return type of all these further specializations is their corresponding primitives only.